#It can process images and videos to identify objects, faces, or even the handwriting of a human.


Computer vision is a process by which we can understand the images and videos how they are stored and how we can manipulate and retrieve data from them.
Computer-Vision is playing a major role in self-driving cars, robotics as well as in photo correction apps.

OpenCV is the huge open-source library for the computer vision, 
machine learning, and image processing and now it plays a major role in real-time operation which is very important in today’s systems. 

Applications of OpenCV-

face recognition
Automated inspection and surveillance
number of people – count (foot traffic in a mall, etc)
Vehicle counting on highways along with their speeds
Interactive art installations
Anamoly (defect) detection in the manufacturing process (the odd defective products)
Street view image stitching
Video/image search and retrieval
Robot and driver-less car navigation and control
object recognition
Medical image analysis
Movies – 3D structure from motion
TV Channels advertisement recognition


Image processing is a method to perform some operations on an image, in order to get an enhanced image and or to extract some useful information from it.

“Image processing is the analysis and manipulation of a digitized image, especially in order to improve its quality”

An image may be defined as a two-dimensional function f(x, y), where x and y are spatial(plane) coordinates, 
and the amplitude of fat any pair of coordinates (x, y) is called the intensity or grey level of the image at that point.

 An image is nothing more than a two-dimensional matrix (3-D in case of coloured images) which 
 is defined by the mathematical function f(x, y) at any point is giving the pixel value at that point of an image,
 the pixel value describes how bright that pixel is, and what colour it should be.
Image processing is basically signal processing in which input is an image and output is image or characteristics according to requirement associated with that image.


The computer reads any image as a range of values between 0 and 255.
For any color image, there are 3 primary channels -red, green and blue.



Image processing basically includes the following three steps:

Importing the image
Analysing and manipulating the image
Output in which result can be altered image or report that is based on image analysis
